---
layout: post
title: About
date: 2050-12-31 00:00:00 -0700
description: About Phil Bresnahan.
img: Scripps-Pier.jpg # Add image post (optional)
tags: [Personal] # add tag
---

I work and play where the ocean meets the land. I’m a coastal oceanographer, paddleboarder, surfer, rower, sailor, teacher, and learner. Humans have always thought of coasts as playgrounds but we’ve more recently recognized that we also treat them as dumping grounds for our trash, (micro-)plastics, (treated) sewage, fossil fuel CO<sub>2</sub> emissions, and countless other chemicals. I study coastal waters because I want to protect them. For myself and for you. And for many generations to come.

### Watersports, Applied Oceanography, and Data Science
I’m a research and development engineer at [Scripps Institution of Oceanography](https://scripps.ucsd.edu) and the head of R&D for the [Smartfin Project](https://smartfin.org). I invent and apply novel marine chemical sensing techniques and analytical approaches in the (mostly coastal) ocean in order to investigate natural and anthropogenic phenomena. I enjoy working on many aspects of ocean sensor networks, including sensor innovation (electrical and mechanical design as well as laboratory and field analysis), cloud data management, and, ultimately, data analysis. Please explore my various projects as a [(paddleboarding and surfing) marine chemist @ Scripps Oceanography](../sup-science) and an environmental scientist @ the [San Francisco Estuary Institute](../estuaries) (2015 -- 16).

My primary R&D tools include Python, C/C++, LabVIEW, SolidWorks, and MATLAB and I have also dabbled in R and Altium Designer.

For a quick snapshot of my work combining watersports, applied oceanography, and data science, check out the interactive map of data I collected from a stand-up paddleboard on World Oceans Day 2015!
